Kamala has been a fearless advocate for the voiceless and vulnerable throughout her career. As president, she'll fight to restore truth and justice in America.

AFFORDABLE HOUSING
Every American should have a secure, affordable roof over their head because housing is a human right.
We have an affordable housing crisis that is affecting families across the country. Costs are rising but people’s paychecks aren’t keeping up. Kamala’s heard the same story on the campaign trail over and over: that families are kept up late at night trying to figure out how to pay the bills and make everything add up. This is a scene that is playing out across the country at kitchen tables everywhere.
Kamala will take steps to make sure that every American has affordable housing. The affordable housing shortage is a primary driver of the national housing crisis. That is why Kamala will invest over $135 billion to build and preserve hundreds of thousands of units of affordable housing.
She will also fight to pass her Rent Relief Act and provide relief to rent-burdened Americans so that they can stay in their homes. She’ll fight to pass her LIFT Act to give a tax cut to working and middle class to make it a bit easier to pay those bills at the end of the month. She’ll fight to pass her Ending Homelessness Act to provide billions in emergency relief funding for federal housing programs to help end homelessness. And, she will enact her plan to close the home ownership gap and provide $100 billion to help people in historically redlined communities purchase a home.
Kamala’s plan to solve the affordable housing crisis will make investments in proven solutions to ensure communities and families prosper. It will increase economic mobility for impoverished families, as well as increase the economic productivity for impoverished communities. It will also address racial equity by reducing residential segregation and concentrations of poverty for families of color.
Housing is a human right. Nobody in America should be left without a home and, as president, Kamala will take significant actions to address our affordable housing crisis head-on.

KAMALA’S RENT RELIEF & LIFT ACTS
Addressing our affordability crisis by giving working families relief from high costs and housing insecurity.
Americans are working harder than ever but stagnant wages are making it difficult for working people to keep up with cost of living increases. Our national affordable housing crisis is causing working families to stay up late at night worrying about how they’ll make ends meet. Kamala believes that in America you should only have to work one job to put food on the table, so she’ll fight to make sure that we support working Americans. 
Kamala’s Rent Relief Act will help keep families in their homes by creating a refundable tax credit for renters who pay more than 30% of their gross income for the taxable year on their rent including utilities. Recipients can use that money to help pay their rent and stay in their homes. And people who live in government-subsidized housing will be able to claim the value of one month’s rent as a tax credit to provide relief from rising costs.
Kamala’s Livable Incomes for Families Today (LIFT) Act will provide working and middle class families with a tax credit of up to $6,000 per year ($500 monthly). Instead of giving tax breaks to the richest Americans, Kamala will repeal the Trump tax cuts and use the money saved to help make sure the LIFT Act can give working people a little extra support. 

CLOSING THE RACIAL HOMEOWNERSHIP GAP
Eliminating racial disparities in homeownership rates and advancing economic justice.
Kamala Harris knows economic justice and racial justice go hand in hand.  A sign of economic justice in our country is the distribution of wealth, which is the measure of a person’s or family’s financial net worth.  Wealth makes it easier for people to move between jobs and places, handle an emergency financial situation, and retire with dignity. But on our current trajectory, by 2053, the bottom 50% of Black households’ liabilities will equal or exceed assets.  Overall Black households will continue to have just a fraction of the wealth held by white households.
One major cause for this is historic redlining – the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation’s practice of identifying neighborhoods, often majority Black neighborhoods, where traditional lenders should not lend.  Redlining has resulted in households of color receiving just 2% of the FHA loans extended between 1934-1962, and formerly redlined neighborhoods are sites of deep racial disparities in home value and lending activity.
The second main cause was the G.I. Bill, which is credited with providing millions of low-income returning veterans with access to wealth-building opportunities that helped to create the American middle class.  Veterans of color, however, were largely excluded because, under the G.I. Bill, private lenders were free to refuse mortgages and loans to Black borrowers.
Black and minority families were also disproportionately impacted by the subprime mortgage crisis and the subsequent Great Recession. Throughout the subprime market, Black borrowers were subjected to higher cost and higher risk loans than white borrowers, even when both had similar levels of creditworthiness. During the years of recovery, 2009-2011, the wealth gap between white households and households of color widened in part due to housing-market weakness.
Today, nearly three-quarters of white households (73%) are homeowners, while under half of Black households (45%) and Latinx households (47%) are homeowners.  This percentage of Black homeowners has remained basically unchanged since 1968.
If we eliminate racial disparities in homeownership rates, median Black wealth would grow $32,113 per household, and the wealth gap between Black and white households would shrink 31%.  Median Latinx wealth would grow $29,213 per household, and the wealth gap between white households would shrink 28%.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Invest $100 billion to provide assistance purchasing a home to homebuyers in historically red-lined communities. 
- Amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to require the credit scores reported by credit reporting agencies to include payments of rent, phone bills, and utilities, helping prospective borrowers build stronger credit. 
- Strengthen anti-discrimination lending laws and commit to robust enforcement.
- Require lenders to calculate debt on a monthly basis and expand the number of income sources used in the calculation.


CHILDREN
Every child deserves the opportunity to succeed and thrive.
Kamala believes you should judge a society by the way it treats its children. Every decision we make has a profound impact on our nation’s youngest, most vulnerable residents. Whether it’s improving our education system, ensuring access to health care and mental health treatment, protecting the environment, overhauling our criminal justice system, reforming our immigration policies, or supporting working families, it all affects our children.
From the beginning of her career, one of Kamala’s highest priorities has been to fight for children. She believes that each and every child deserves a fair shot at success in life and that we have a responsibility to treat the children of the community as the children of the community. As President, she will put children at the center of her decision-making and treat their needs with the same urgency and importance as we treat any other national priority. She’ll equalize economic and educational opportunities, safeguard children’s health and safety, treat children as children in the criminal justice system, and keep families together.

KAMALA’S CHILDREN’S AGENDA
Ensuring that every child has an opportunity to succeed and thrive.
Kamala believes you should judge a society by the way it treats its children. And we know there’s a lot at stake for them in this election. Every decision we make has a profound impact on our nation’s youngest, most vulnerable residents. Whether it’s improving our education system, ensuring access to health care and mental health treatment, protecting the environment, overhauling our criminal justice system, reforming our immigration policies, or supporting working families, it all affects our children.
From the beginning of her career until now, one of Kamala’s highest priorities has been to fight for children. She believes that each and every child deserves a fair shot at success in life and that we have a responsibility to treat the children of the community as the children of the community. As President, she will put children at the center of her decision-making and treat their needs with the same urgency and importance as we treat any other national priority.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
Economic:
- Guarantee up to six months of paid family and medical leave for workers nationwide.
- Cut child poverty by over 50% in her first term.
Physical Health and Mental Health:
- All children – whether they live in rural or urban areas – will have access to a nurse and social worker at their school.
- Invest in mental health and trauma-informed care, and provide toxic stress screenings for every child in the country.
Criminal Justice Reform:
- Stop the treatment of children as adults in the criminal justice system.
- Keep families together. Unlike what Trump has done in immigration to lock up babies in cages and separate families, Kamala believes that we must strive to do the opposite and keep families together where possible.
Accountability: 
- Create a Bureau of Children and Family Justice to ensure Kamala’s Children’s Agenda gets done.


CLIMATE CHANGE
We need to act now to radically combat climate change, or we will face major global climate catastrophes. We can no longer make excuses.
We’re facing a climate crisis. From families devastated by hurricanes in the South and East Coast, to farmers facing flooding in the Midwest, to firefighters battling wildfires in California, one thing is clear: We need to take bold, direct action now.
Kamala knows we need to take on big oil companies to win this fight—and that’s exactly what she’s done throughout her career. From defending California’s landmark climate laws in court, to suing corporations like Chevron for damaging the environment, Kamala has stood up to special interests—and won.
But this isn’t just a fight against something, it’s a fight for something. While the climate threat is great, so is our opportunity. With American ingenuity and imagination, we can forge a Green New Deal to tackle the climate crisis, build a clean economy that creates good-paying jobs for the future, and confront environmental injustice head on.
That means modernizing our transportation, energy, and water infrastructure. It means accelerating the spread of electric vehicles, solar panels, and wind turbines. And it means making bold investments in innovative technologies to build a carbon free future.
At the same time, we must also stand up for those most affected by environmental harm. It shouldn’t matter how much money you have or what neighborhood you live in — clean air and water are fundamental rights. That’s why Kamala created the first-ever environmental justice unit in San Francisco as District Attorney. It’s why, as Attorney General, Kamala sued corporations for exposing residents to high levels of diesel. As president, she’ll continue that work by restoring environmental and public health protections rolled back by President Trump, and building on work being done by states and communities to ensure a healthy and sustainable future.
While we fight to strengthen our economy and protect communities at home, we must also re-establish American leadership around the globe. That starts with immediately re-entering the Paris Agreement and making climate cooperation a key diplomatic priority for the United States.

A CLIMATE PLAN FOR THE PEOPLE
We can no longer make excuses, we need a bold plan to preserve our future.
We have always been an aspirational nation. I am reminded of this every time I look into the eyes of our children. With leadership, teamwork, and aspiration, our history tells us anything is possible. 
But we must also speak truth about the road ahead. We are living through a worsening climate crisis that is impacting communities across America and the globe every day. 
From families devastated by hurricanes in the South and the East, to farmers facing flooding in the Midwest, to firefighters battling wildfires in the West, one thing is clear: we need to take bold, direct action. Now. 
Here are key points from Kamala’s Climate Plan for the People:
- Address environmental injustice and provide frontline communities a seat at the decision-making table, including by passing Kamala’s Climate Equity Act. 
- Hold polluters accountable and stop handouts to the fossil fuel industry.
- Build a clean economy no later than 2045 and make sure that it lifts everyone up by creating good, family-sustaining, jobs. 
- Protect all of our natural resources and ensure our public lands are part of our solution to reducing carbon.
- Re-establish America’s leadership in moving the international community to tackle this climate crisis.


COMMUNITIES OF COLOR
“For the People” means for all the people.
Kamala has always stood up “for the people.” She knows that our diversity is our greatest strength, and that until all of us are equal, none of us are equal.
Justice is on the ballot; any time we deny justice to someone because of their race, their religion, or the language they speak, we deny justice to all the people. That’s why, as president, Kamala will fight to lift up historically disadvantaged and marginalized communities. This means making bold investments in communities of color and clearing the way onto critical on-ramps to economic opportunity like capital to start a business.
It means fighting to protect every American’s fundamental right to vote.
It means reforming our criminal justice system, which is deeply flawed and infected with bias.
It means reopening our doors to refugees and asylum-seekers of every race and religion, taking executive action to create a path to citizenship for DREAMers, and fighting to enact 21st century immigration reform that lives up to our values.
It means combating racial disparities in our health care system and delivering culturally competent care and resources patients need.
We need a president who will do everything in her power to level the playing field, stand up for equal rights and opportunities for all, and remind Americans that we have so much more in common than what separates us. Kamala will be that president.

LIFTING UP NATIVE AMERICAN COMMUNITIES
Kamala’s Plan To Honor Tribal Sovereignty And Lift Up Native American Communities
The First Peoples of this country were Native Americans. Long before European explorers arrived in North America, American Indian tribes inhabited this land and governed their societies.  
Our Founders recognized the sovereignty of tribal governments in the U.S. Constitution. When the United States signed treaties with Tribal Nations for the exchange of land, we agreed to take on a trust responsibility to preserve the right of Indian tribes to govern themselves and provide sufficient resources so tribes can deliver essential services to their citizens.
But we must speak truth: we have failed our obligations to Tribal Nations. 
The United States has signed over 500 treaties with Tribal Nations—and we have broken every single one of them. We have a brutal history of taking millions of acres of land and decimating Native American communities. Today, as a result, Native American communities lag behind others in terms of health care, education, and economic development.
Nonetheless, Native American communities remain resilient and vibrant. And we have an opportunity to chart a new course of fully empowering Native American communities and supporting their governments’ right to self-determination and self-governance. 
As president, Kamala will honor the United States’ historic government-to-government relationship with Tribal Nations and invest in Native American communities to secure lasting prosperity.  
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Honor tribal sovereignty and set a goal to take more land into trust for federally recognized tribes.
- Ensure robust funding for healthcare resources in tribal communities.
- Ensure women in tribal communities are protected and lifted up.
- Expand educational opportunities in tribal communities. 
- Expand programs that support economic development on tribal lands.
- Ensure Native American voting rights.

KAMALA’S PLAN TO STAND UP FOR BLACK AMERICA
We must right what is wrong and write the next chapter for Black Americans.
Kamala has fought for racial justice her entire career. She knows that we can’t have racial justice without dismantling the institutionalized injustices and biases Black Americans still face in our country—including in our economy, housing, and our education, health care, and criminal justice systems.
As president, Kamala will fight to restore truth and justice in America and build an economy that works for everyone. She’ll make investments that create opportunities for Black entrepreneurs to bring great ideas into the marketplace and grow the small business engine of our economy. She’ll make sure that more resources go to minority-owned small businesses and low-income neighborhoods, and that housing dollars actually go to building affordable units.
And because pipelines to economic opportunity begin with education, she’ll continue her lifelong commitment to HBCUs and other Minority Serving Institutions by making attendance to these landmark institutions debt-free for students and investing over $60 billion in programs that teach and train the next generation of leaders of color.
We can’t secure a healthy and sustainable future without standing up for low-income and communities of color who shoulder a heavier burden of environmental harms and resulting health impacts than white and wealthy communities. Kamala will tackle environmental injustices head-on, so Black families can breathe clean air and drink clean water.
Kamala will also pass Medicare for All, combat the Black maternal mortality crisis, protect reproductive rights, and close the “boyfriend loophole” to prevent dating partners convicted of domestic violence from purchasing guns.
And Kamala will fight for end-to-end reform of our deeply flawed, biased criminal justice system, which incarcerates Black Americans at more than 5 times the rate of white Americans. She’ll drive an end to the era of mass incarceration and ensure that those returning from prison and jail can successfully re-enter their communities.
Standing side-by-side with communities across the country, Kamala will work every day to right wrongs and write the next chapter of justice and prosperity for Black Americans.

ACTION FOR API AMERICANS
Kamala knows our country is stronger for this diversity and will fight for equal opportunity, access to justice, and human rights for all API Americans.
There are over 24 million Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders in the United States, and collectively, the Asian Pacific Islander American (APIA) community is the fastest growing demographic group in the country. The APIA community also forms one of the most diverse communities in America: APIAs can trace their ancestry to more than 30 countries and ethnic groups. The needs and concerns of the APIA community are just as diverse as the community itself, ranging from affordable health care, housing, and reducing gun violence, to climate change and immigration. Yet public policy discussions often overlook the needs and priorities of the APIA community.
As a member of the APIA community, Kamala understands firsthand the unique and wide-ranging concerns facing the rich tapestry of ethnicities, languages, and cultures that form this diverse community. Kamala knows our country is stronger for this diversity and will fight for equal opportunity, access to justice, and human rights for all API Americans.

HOW SHE’LL DO IT:
Dismantle language barriers to enable access to services and the right to vote.
APIAs speak over 100 languages and dialects. Nearly 3 out of 4 Asian Americans speak a language other than English at home, and roughly one third are limited English proficient (LEP). Language barriers can impede access to a wide range of vital services, including healthcare, social services, housing assistance, courts, and education. Language barriers also bar full participation in the democratic process. Kamala believes in an America that guarantees equal opportunity and full participation for everyone. That’s why she’ll:
- Ensure that programs that receive federal funds are accessible to individuals with limited English proficiency. Executive Order 13166 requires that federal agencies, as well as recipients of federal funds, ensure LEP individuals can effectively participate in and benefit from federally funded programs. While some agencies have complied with the Order, many more have not. Additionally, programs often expand access to just a single additional language, still leaving many LEP APIAs without meaningful access. As president, Kamala will direct federal agencies to assess existing language access programs, develop an action plan to further improve language access, and push Congress to include language access as a core component in future legislation, where applicable.
- Eliminate language barriers to voting. The right to vote is fundamental. But many LEP citizens cannot effectively exercise their right to vote. For example, difficulty understanding voting materials, such as voter registration forms, ballots, and complicated referenda can essentially exclude many citizens from exercising their right to vote. Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act requires certain jurisdictions to provide non-English language assistance at polling places to groups that have historically faced voter discrimination. However, of all jurisdictions covered by Section 203, just 27 provide language assistance for at least one Asian language. And even in covered jurisdictions, language assistance can be deficient. In one 2012 study, 45 percent of a sample of covered precincts had missing or poorly displayed translated materials, and 23 percent lacked at least one Asian-language bilingual poll worker.
Kamala believes all citizens must have equal access to the vote. That’s why she’ll make sure that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has the resources to fully implement language assistance at the polls and vigorously monitor covered jurisdictions’ compliance. She’ll also fight to pass legislation that expands language access by decreasing the minimum population threshold necessary for Section 203 coverage.
Disaggregate data to accurately reflect the needs and challenges of the APIA community. 
In the aggregate, APIAs appear to form a successful group with high income, education achievement, and health outcomes. However, breaking down that data by ethnicity uncovers an entirely different story. Take pay equity as an example. Taken together, APIA women are paid an average of 86 cents for every dollar a white man receives; on that same dollar, Vietnamese, Laotian, and Samoan American women receive 61 cents, Burmese American women, 53 cents, and Bhutanese American women, 38 cents. 
Here’s the truth: aggregated APIA data is simply inaccurate. It masks the needs and disparities of marginalized APIA subgroups and leaves them unserved. We need disaggregated data to guide accurate private and public decision-making and direct resources to where they’re most needed. That’s why, as president, Kamala will:
Revise the federal data collection standard to include ethnicity.
The federal government still uses data collection standards from 1997. It provides two race-based categories for APIAs: “Asian” and “Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander.” That has to change. The Obama administration took steps to improve data collection, including through disaggregation, but the Trump administration discontinued these initiatives. Despite wide support from APIA community groups, the Trump administration’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has refused to adopt a combined race and ethnicity question when collecting data. 
In the Harris administration, Kamala will instruct OMB to revise its standards to ensure comprehensive and meaningful race and ethnicity data collection standards across federal agencies.
Adopt best practices to overcome data collection challenges.
Fundamental challenges can frustrate accurate data collection from the APIA community. For example, a large portion of the APIA population speaks a language other than English at home, and about 1 in 3 have limited English proficiency (LEP). In addition, people of color, rural residents, and low-income households respond to surveys at relatively lower rates. 
To encourage APIA participation, ensure adequate representation, and increase response rates, Kamala will instruct federal agencies to:
- Take into account LEP among APIA communities;
- Oversample areas in with a high concentration of APIAs to ensure that APIA respondents are adequately represented in the overall survey sample;
- Partner with APIA community organizations, media, and advocates on outreach to increase participation;
- Direct the Census Bureau to secure federal funding for community organizations serving as Census Information Centers;
- Employ multiple methods to collect data, including phone surveys, in-person interviews, and community partner-led approaches; and
- Collect information on detailed ethnic groups that reflect and celebrate the diversity within the APIA community. 
Ensure full participation of federal agencies to submit and implement plans to improve data disaggregation.
Executive Order 13515 requires federal agencies to submit plans “to improve the quality of life of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders through increased participation in federal programs,” including research, data collection, and analysis of APIAs by subgroup. Twenty-four federal agencies submitted plans to improve data disaggregation, but many have not. Kamala will require all federal agencies to develop plans to improve data disaggregation and take steps to implement them.
Boost economic opportunity, mobility, and growth.
The nearly 2 million APIA-owned businesses in the United States form the backbone of communities across the country. Almost half of these are small businesses with fewer than 20 employees, and 1 in 5 provide food or accommodations. They serve and employ local residents, many of whom are limited English proficient (LEP), offer financial stability, and create paths to economic growth for APIA community members and their families.
Kamala is committed to empowering APIA-owned businesses and growing the small business engine of our economy. That’s why she’ll:
Work with Congress to create a $12 billion capital grant and technical support program.
The program will directly help APIA entrepreneurs and other minority small business owners start businesses. She’ll direct the U.S. Department of Commerce Minority Business Development Agency to distribute these funds, leveraging its nationwide network of business development centers.
Invest in culturally and linguistically competent services.
Kamala also knows that increasing access to capital is more than a matter of providing funds. The U.S. Small Business Administration’s Office of Advocacy found that APIAs were more likely than any other racial or ethnic group to use their personal resources to finance start-up costs, which appreciably limits business growth. A recent nationwide survey of APIA small business owners found that nearly half of respondents relied on loans from friends and family, and one third relied solely on their own funds. That’s why she’ll make sure that APIA entrepreneurs can access capital and business counsel in culturally and linguistically competent ways through programs such as the SBA Program for Investment in Microentrepreneurs, SBA Community Advantage and Microloan programs, SBA Small Business Development Centers, Office of Refugee Resettlement Microenterprise Development Program, and the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund.
Achieve health equity.
Kamala recognizes that language barriers, education level, occupation and income, immigration status, and other social determinants directly impact health risks for APIAs and drive the health care they need. And as with other communities of color, APIA groups face significant health disparities. For example, although APIAs comprise 5 percent of the U.S. population, they account for more than half of all chronic hepatitis B cases. If left untreated, hepatitis B can develop into serious liver disease, such as cirrhosis, liver damage, and cancer. And APIA female high school students were 20 percent more likely to attempt suicide than their white female peers in 2017, but just 8.6% of APIAs seek mental health care. 
Kamala will fight to eliminate APIA health disparities. She’ll:
- Pass her Medicare for All plan which will cover all medically necessary services for all Americans with no deductibles and no copays. Kamala’s plan will also cover long-term health care services and supports in home- and community-based settings, so family members can care for their loved ones in their own communities.
- Provide more in-language support. Limited English proficiency (LEP) poses a serious barrier to accessing and receiving care and magnifies existing health disparities. Studies show that LEP patients are more likely to report poor health and forgo necessary medical services, and less likely to receive follow-up appointments and use preventative services (such as cancer screenings) than other patients. Kamala will dedicate federal funds to expanding in-language services so patients can communicate with their doctors and fully understand their care instructions. She’ll also work to translate more government agency resources, such as factsheets and health care marketplace exchange websites, to reach all APIA community members, regardless of English ability. 
Facilitate family-based immigration.
For centuries, new Americans have come to this country as families. This foundational family-based immigration bolsters our economy and strengthens families and communities. Immediate family members who join relatives in the United States work in family businesses, care for children and elderly family members, pool money for investments in businesses, and generally provide a social safety net for each other.
Forty-four percent of APIA new legal permanent residents were most likely to come as immediate relatives of U.S. citizens. And under the Trump administration, wait times for family-based immigration visas have increased drastically. Most of the immigration backlogs are for family-sponsored applicants (314,000 from the Philippines, 299,000 from India, 232,000 each from Vietnam and China); more than 40 percent of individuals stuck in the family visa backlog—or approximately 1.5 million people—are from Asia. As president, Kamala will clear the family visa backlog as part of her plan for a fair and just immigration system.
Defend immigrant youth and families.
Asian undocumented immigrants comprise about 13% of the 11 million undocumented immigrants who live in our country. Approximately 130,000 of these immigrants are DREAMers who know no other place but the United States as their home. As president, Kamala will take decisive executive action to keep families together and forge a path to U.S. citizenship for DREAMers and their families. 
- She’ll immediately reinstate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and expand DACA by eliminating the requirement that DREAMers apply before they turn 31 years old, raising the age at time of entry from 15 years old and under to 17 years old and under, allowing little DREAMers under 15 years old to apply for protection with parental or guardian consent, increasing the two-year term of DACA protection to three years, and updating the cutoff date for entry into the United States.
- She’ll protect the parents of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents from the prospect of deportation by expanding the deferred action program. She’ll also extend deferred action eligibility to other law-abiding immigrants with ties to our communities.
- And she’ll use every tool available via execution action to tear down unnecessary barriers to citizenship for DREAMers and other deferred action recipients.
Reverse the Trump administration’s actions targeting immigrant communities.
Make no mistake: President Trump has used the presidency to rewrite regulations and issue Executive Orders that target the APIA community. As president, Kamala won’t let that stand. When she enters the White House, Kamala will:
- Rescind President Trump’s Muslim Ban. 
Three in ten American Muslims are Asian American. President Trump’s Executive Orders restricting citizens from six predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States discriminates against Muslim immigrants and refugees, many of whom are women and children displaced by violence. That’s why Kamala will immediately reverse the Muslim Ban upon taking office.
- Rescind this administration’s public charge rule.   Under the current administration’s hateful public charge rule, immigrants who play by the rules and contribute to their communities risk deportation for participating in public benefit programs, such as Medicaid and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). To leverage vital public services to discourage lawful immigration is cruel and dangerous.
- Rescind the Trump Proclamation denying immigrants a visa unless they have “approved health insurance” or can prove they have “the financial resources to pay for reasonably foreseeable medical costs.” President Trump’s cruel campaign to separate immigrant families will end under the Harris administration.
Restore humanitarian immigration programs.
The U.S. has traditionally led the world in refugee admissions and provided a lifesaving safe haven for those from war torn countries. Since fiscal year 1980, 55% of refugees have come from Asia. Kamala believes we have a moral responsibility to welcome children and families fleeing ongoing violence and oppression. That’s why, as Senator, she’s called for fully funding programs for refugees and other vulnerable migrant populations, and introduced legislation to ensure that the annual admissions ceiling on refugee admissions doesn’t dip below 95,000.
The Trump administration has abdicated our country’s commitment to humanitarian aid. It has lowered the annual admissions ceiling to 18,000 in fiscal year 2020—an 84 percent reduction from fiscal year 2017 and a new all-time low ceiling since Congress passed the Refugee Act of 1980. Slashing the refugee admissions program is yet another way that this administration continues to administer a cruel and inhumane immigration policy that directly harms so many APIA immigrant families.
As president, Kamala will restore our country’s global standing as the world leader in vital humanitarian immigration aid. She’ll ensure our critical humanitarian programs are fully funded and fight to pass her Guaranteed Refugee Admissions Ceiling Enhancement (GRACE) Act.
Reform employment visa programs to eliminate discriminatory backlogs.
Current policies like per-country caps for employment-based green cards effectively penalize immigrants for their country of origin. The vast—and growing—employment-based visa backlog has an outsized impact on the APIA community: as of 2018, 95% of the over 825,000 individuals in line for the chance to apply for their green cards come from Asia (China, India, the Philippines, and Vietnam). At the same time, demand for immigrant workers shows no signs of abating. For six consecutive years, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) received so many petitions that it’s hit the annual cap for H-1B visas (for high-skilled workers) within 5 business days of opening the filing period.
Kamala believes we must do more to eliminate discriminatory backlogs and protect immigrant workers so they can stay in our country and continue to contribute to the economy. That’s why she’ll push overdue reforms to visa programs, including for high-skilled and low-skilled workers, to streamline our immigrant labor force and stimulate entrepreneurship. Her Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act, for example, would lift existing per-country caps for employment-based green cards and also raise per-country caps for family-sponsored green cards from 7 percent to 15 percent.
Seek equitable treatment and support for Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander communities.
Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders trace their ancestry to the indigenous peoples of Hawai‘i; the U.S. Territories of American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI); and other Pacific Islands. Like Alaska Natives and American Indians, Native Hawaiians have a special political and legal relationship with the federal government due to their status as indigenous people who once exercised full sovereignty in areas that now form part of the United States. 
The United States also has a special historical and political relationship with its territories and other countries in the Pacific Islands, namely the independent Micronesian nations with whom the United States established the Compact of Free Association (COFA). Individuals from COFA countries can live and work in the United States without visas or health screenings; in exchange, the United States has exclusive military rights over their territory. 
Kamala knows that federal policies and programs must carefully consider the unique circumstances of Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders. She also knows that these communities have been historically underserved and faced discrimination. As president, she will:
- Direct federal agencies to develop action plans to advance civil rights and educational and health equity for Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander communities. For example, she’ll instruct the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to develop an action plan to address home ownership and employment disparities.
- Restore federal safety-net program eligibility for COFA immigrants. Between 1946 and 1958, the United States detonated the equivalent of over 7,200 Hiroshima-sized bombs in the Marshall Islands, an island country in Micronesia. These nuclear weapons tests transformed homelands in the Pacific Islands into radioactive wastelands and resulted in devastating health outcomes, including stillbirths, sterility, and cancer. Under the 1986 Compact of Free Association, COFA immigrants, as legal residents of the United States, could initially receive the same public benefits as Americans. But ten years later, federal welfare reform stripped COFA immigrants’ eligibility for Medicaid, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), and other vital safety net programs—despite the fact that COFA immigrants pay taxes and therefore contribute directly to these programs.That’s not right. Although some states provide health care services to COFA immigrants, this still leaves many COFA immigrants who cannot afford the premiums to secure health care for their families. As president, Kamala will fight to restore COFA immigrants’ eligibility for Medicaid, Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and other federal safety-net benefits to which they were previously entitled.
Celebrate the culture and history of the APIA community.
Kamala is proud to honor and celebrate the APIA community’s contributions in public service, arts and media, education, and beyond. As Senator, she led a bipartisan resolution the Senate unanimously passed to designate May as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. As president, she’ll continue to recognize the rich and diverse contributions of the APIA community and supports Representative Meng’s proposal to consider building a museum dedicated to the history, culture, and accomplishments of APIAs.

CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM
From mass incarceration to cash bail to policing, our criminal justice system needs drastic reform.
Our criminal justice system is deeply flawed, infected with bias, and in urgent need of reform. This isn’t something Kamala had to be taught, it’s something she’s always understood. Growing up with a stroller-eye view of the civil rights movement, her mother instilled in her the belief that justice was something you had to fight for.
That’s why Kamala became a prosecutor: to be a voice for people who needed an advocate and to make changes to the system from within. As District Attorney, Kamala championed one of the first re-entry programs in the nation to direct young people arrested for drug crimes into job training and counseling programs instead of jail. As Attorney General, Kamala’s Department of Justice became the first statewide agency to mandate a body camera program and launched the first of its kind implicit bias and procedural justice training in the country. She launched pattern and practice investigations into discriminatory actions by law enforcement agencies and pioneered data transparency initiatives on law enforcement activities. As Senator, Kamala has championed sentencing reform and introduced bipartisan legislation to end our country’s cash bail system.
As president, Kamala will continue to fight for end-to-end criminal justice reform. To ensure accountable and constitutional policing, she will double the civil rights division, renew and expand pattern and practice investigations, enforce consent decrees, and support legislation to end racial profiling.
To help end the era of mass incarceration, Kamala will take action to legalize marijuana, further reform federal sentencing laws, end private prisons and the profiting off of people in prison, and push states to prioritize treatment and rehabilitation for drug offenses. She will also seek a federal moratorium on the death penalty.
To help ensure those returning from prison and jail can successfully re-enter their communities, Kamala will start by fighting to expunge records for marijuana offenses, increase investments in reentry support and job training programs, and take executive action to “ban the box” so employers consider a job candidate’s qualifications first—without the stigma of a former conviction.

Kamala’s Plan to Transform the Criminal Justice System and Re-Envision Public Safety in America
Reforming our criminal justice system is as complex and pressing an endeavor as any other in our lifetime. It is the civil rights issue of our time, and there is perhaps no one more uniquely suited to taking on this issue than Kamala Harris.
From the civil rights protests she attended as a child, to her time working inside the system as a prosecutor, Kamala has seen firsthand the fundamental flaws of the system. And because of her experiences, she has the insight and the fight to fundamentally transform the system for the better.
At its best, the system serves to hold serious wrongdoers accountable and achieve justice for crime survivors, while helping to build safer and healthier communities. At its worst, decades of failed policies have created an unjust, unequal, and vastly expansive system that disproportionately harms communities of color and criminalizes individuals just because they are poor. It is long past time to re-envision public safety by strengthening and supporting our communities and drastically limiting the number of people we expose to our criminal justice system. As president, Kamala will fundamentally transform how we approach public safety.
Here are the key points from Kamala’s plan:
- End mass incarceration and making evidence-based investments in our communities to make them safer, healthier, and stronger. 
- Ensure that law enforcement is accountable to the communities they are sworn to protect. 
- Ensure that our criminal justice system treats everyone humanely. 
- Ensure that our criminal justice system protects and lifts up the most vulnerable among us. 

DISABILITIES
Kamala believes in an America that is fully inclusive and accessible for everyone. As president, she’ll fight every day to make that a reality.
Sixty-one million Americans live with disabilities. Each of them deserves equal opportunity, support, and accommodation. That’s why Kamala will fight to dismantle barriers to equal participation for all persons with disabilities. For example, many states still permit subminimum wages for Americans for disabilities. That’s not right. Kamala will eliminate these unfair wage laws and build out grant programs for states to help people with disabilities prepare for, secure, and retain employment.
In the classroom, she’ll work to fully fund the IDEA so students with disabilities can get the education they deserve and secure long-term economic opportunity.
And when it comes to health care, her Medicare for All plan fully covers comprehensive long-term services and supports in-home and community-based settings.
We must also meet the full promise of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Kamala will recommit to fully enforcing the ADA and other civil rights laws that protect people with disabilities because our country is stronger when everyone is valued, everyone has dignity, and everyone can be part of the competitive labor force.
KAMALA’S COMMITMENT TO FULL INCLUSION AND CIVIL RIGHTS FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIESl 
According to CDC data, about a quarter of people in the United States have a disability. Kamala believes in an America that is fully accessible and inclusive for everyone and her administration will fight to make this a reality across all parts of our society. As president, Kamala will have diverse leaders with disabilities developing all the policies her administration champions, including priorities that will lift up people with disabilities.
To do this we must expand economic opportunity and security for people with disabilities. In 2018, the unemployment rate for workers with disabilities was more than twice that for workers without disabilities. Only 32 percent of people with disabilities who are working-age are employed. On the other hand, 73 percent of people without disabilities in the same age group are employed. Just as we fight to finally eliminate practices that lead to people with disabilities being paid subminimum wages, we also have to speak the truth about how we need to eliminate barriers that make it harder for people with disabilities to fully participate in our workforce.
Under Kamala’s leadership, in partnership with the disability community, we can build an America that lives up to the promise of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Our country is stronger when everyone is valued, everyone has dignity, and everyone can be part of the competitive labor force.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Expand opportunities to transition to competitive integrated employment by increasing access to the services and supports people with disabilities need and eliminating subminimum wages.
- Pass the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) Full Funding Act to make sure that students with disabilities are learning in classrooms that have funding to ensure they can get the education they deserve.
- Ratify U.S. participation in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to affirm American leadership in fighting for the civil rights of people with disabilities around the world.
- Allow people without dependent children to take advantage of the Earned Income Tax Credit.
- Ensure the federal government is a model inclusive employer.
- Take executive action to ensure that the technology the federal government buys, develops, or uses is fully accessible.
- Create senior-level positions in the White House to make sure that the priorities for people with disabilities are incorporated across all of her policymaking.

ECONOMIC JUSTICE
In America today, the cost of living is going up, paychecks aren’t keeping up, and the rules keep being written to benefit big corporations and the top 1%. When the bankers who crashed our economy get bonuses but the workers who brought our country back are barely getting by, it’s clear: Our economy isn’t working for working people.
Kamala believes we need to fight for working families — to increase paychecks, decrease the cost of living and combat sexism, racism, and corporate favoritism in our economy to ensure every American gets a fair shot.
That’s why Kamala’s first priority as president will be to give working and middle class families an overdue income boost. Under her plan, she’ll reverse President Trump’s trillion-dollar tax cut for big corporations and the top 1% and use that money to give a tax credit of up to $6,000 to working families each year.
That’s just the start. To raise wages, Kamala will fight to empower unions, make a $15 minimum wage the national floor, and create stricter penalties for companies that cheat their workers.
While Kamala fights for fair wages, she’ll work to constrain the rising costs that keep Americans up at night. She’ll pass her Rent Relief Act to provide a tax credit for people spending 30 percent or more of their income on rent and utilities. She’ll increase the federal government’s investment in child care to ensure working families don’t pay more than 7 percent of their income on care. And she’ll crack down on pharmaceutical companies that price-gouge while empowering the government to negotiate down the price of prescription drugs.
But let’s speak truth: We didn’t get here by accident. Americans are struggling to get by because leaders in Washington are not working in the interests of working people. Racial and gender inequality are rampant, and corporations have increased their power to exploit workers. Kamala knows we need to fight back. As president, she’ll mandate equal pay for women, promote policies that build wealth in communities of color, and crack down on corporations that exploit vulnerable Americans for profit.
Kamala has been waging this fight her entire career. As Attorney General, she actively prosecuted financial crimes, including predatory lending. She fought Wall Street’s biggest banks and won $20 billion for California homeowners harmed by the foreclosure crisis. And she took on the country’s largest for-profit college scam, winning more than $1 billion in relief for students and veterans defrauded by Corinthian Colleges.


KAMALA’S RENT RELIEF & LIFT ACTS
Addressing our affordability crisis by giving working families relief from high costs and housing insecurity.
Americans are working harder than ever but stagnant wages are making it difficult for working people to keep up with cost of living increases. Our national affordable housing crisis is causing working families to stay up late at night worrying about how they’ll make ends meet. Kamala believes that in America you should only have to work one job to put food on the table, so she’ll fight to make sure that we support working Americans. 
Kamala’s Rent Relief Act will help keep families in their homes by creating a refundable tax credit for renters who pay more than 30% of their gross income for the taxable year on their rent including utilities. Recipients can use that money to help pay their rent and stay in their homes. And people who live in government-subsidized housing will be able to claim the value of one month’s rent as a tax credit to provide relief from rising costs.
Kamala’s Livable Incomes for Families Today (LIFT) Act will provide working and middle class families with a tax credit of up to $6,000 per year ($500 monthly). Instead of giving tax breaks to the richest Americans, Kamala will repeal the Trump tax cuts and use the money saved to help make sure the LIFT Act can give working people a little extra support. 

CLOSING THE OPPORTUNITY GAP
Making bold investments in HBCUs and Black Entrepreneurship.
Pipelines of opportunity should be available to all Americans. But for Black Americans, discrimination and historical injustice have created significant barriers to critical opportunity on-ramps like capital to start a business or access to the training and education needed to enter a lucrative field. 
It’s harder for Black entrepreneurs to get the startup capital they need. They are more likely to rely on personal credit cards carrying balances than traditional bank loans, and when Black entrepreneurs do get a loan, they are more likely to be offered a smaller amount and pay higher interest rates. Additionally, Black Americans are saddled with much higher student debt burdens, which makes it harder to get financing to start a business. Nearly 40% of African American adults between the ages of 25 and 55 hold student debt, compared to 30% of whites and Latinxs.
We must also speak the truth about how Black Americans remain at a disadvantage in participating in our STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) workforce. The Penn Center for Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) reports, for example, that Black students studying engineering earned only 4.2% of bachelor’s degrees in 2012 across the United States.  Of these, Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) graduate nearly 1 in 4 Black Americans who earn science and engineering bachelor degrees. Yet, HBCUs remain historically under-resourced and some are even being forced to close. Of the U.S. institutions of higher education that have endowments of $1 billion or greater in 2018, none are HBCUs. A 2018 GAO report found that the size of the median HBCU endowment was about half the size of a similar institution that wasn’t an HBCU.
We have to reverse this trend. With access to proper resources, HBCUs and other MSIs can be hubs of activity for STEM research and learning which will create a virtuous circle, attracting other leading faculty, students, and research funding opportunities. And with proper resources, we can ensure that Black entrepreneurs have a real shot at starting small businesses and other ventures. 
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Kamala Harris will invest $60 billion in STEM education at HBCUs and other MSIs. 
- Work with Congress to create a $12 billion capital grant and technical support program, which will go directly to helping minority small business owners start businesses. 
- Make sure that Black entrepreneurs have a real shot at getting a federal contract awarded to their business.
- Reform Opportunity Zones and set new goals to make sure funds go to minority-owned small businesses, prioritize lowest-income neighborhoods, prioritize hiring in those neighborhoods, and have safeguards to ensure that housing projects that are built actually contain affordable units

KAMALA’S PLAN TO SET FAIR PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES
‘People over profit:’ bringing down the cost of prescription drugs, even if Congress refuses to act.
In America, nobody should have to wake up at 3AM worried about how they’ll afford their prescription drugs and still put food on the table for their family. But today, 3 in 10 Americans don’t take their medication as directed because they can’t afford the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs. 1 in 5 Americans report having trouble paying for basic necessities like food and housing because of their prescription drug costs. 
While families struggle to make it to the end of the month, pharmaceutical companies are turning record profits. They’re spending nearly as much on advertising as R&D. They’re manipulating their market power to hike prices on lifesaving generic drugs. They’re making twice the profit of the average industry in America and still increased drug prices by 10.5 percent over the past six months alone. Meanwhile, they are charging dramatically higher prices to American consumers.
What has Donald Trump done? Refused to put people over profit and handed Big Pharma and the health care industry a $100 billion tax cut instead. Drugmakers used the windfall to enrich their shareholders and families have been slapped with double-digit price increases on 2,500 drugs since Trump took office.
Kamala believes it’s time for that to change. When Harris is president, families won’t wake up at 3AM worried about the cost of their prescription drugs. As president, she’ll require pharmaceutical companies to set fair prices for prescription drugs and tax profits made from abusive drug prices at a rate of 100 percent. These profits will go back directly to consumers. And if Congress refuses to act within 100 days, the Harris Administration will investigate price-gouging by pharma companies on her own and take executive action to lower the cost of their drugs.
Here are key points from Kamala’s plan to set fair prescription drug prices:
- Stop pharmaceutical companies from price-gouging patients by giving the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the authority to set a fair price for what they can charge for prescription drugs.
- End the pharmaceutical company tax loophole for direct-to-consumer advertising expenses. 
- If Congress fails to act, Kamala will launch an investigation of all major prescription drugs whose pharmaceutical companies are price-gouging patients.
- For companies that are price-gouging, Kamala will step in and use regulatory authority to intervene and lower the cost of a drug.

EDUCATION
Kamala will make public education more equitable to ensure a bright future for all students.
Our nation’s education system is supposed to be an engine of opportunity. Unfortunately, this is far from the reality for too many of our students, particularly low-income and rural students, students of color, and students with disabilities. We must strive for a more equitable public education system that will lead to better school and life outcomes for all children.
Addressing this inequity requires a comprehensive approach that ensures all children have the opportunity to thrive from their earliest years. Kamala believes that meaningful access to education is a fundamental civil right. As president, Kamala will fight to make public education more equitable.
Students also shouldn’t fear decades of debt just because they want to pursue an education. But today in America, students graduate with so much debt, they often can’t take the job they want, start a business or a family, or even pay the bills. As president, Kamala will provide relief from crushing debt today, and ensure tomorrow’s students can attend college debt-free.
Finally, the United States is facing a teacher pay crisis. Kamala will make the largest federal investment in teacher pay in U.S. history to fully close the teacher pay gap during her first term. Her plan will provide the average public school teacher a $13,500 raise.
When President Lyndon B. Johnson made a major investment in education in 1965, he told the country that it was to “bridge the gap between helplessness and hope.” Fifty-four years later, this gap remains—but Kamala is determined to keep building that bridge as president.

AMERICA’S TEACHERS DESERVE A RAISE
Valuing and respecting working people who lay the foundation of our future economy.
Every child deserves a world-class education, regardless of their ZIP code. Of all in-school factors that impact their success, there’s nothing more important than our teachers. That’s a fact. But we’re not acting like it. In America today, there’s a drastic teacher pay gap—and it’s growing. Public school teachers earn 11 percent less than similar professionals, teachers are more likely than non-teachers to work a second job, and the average teacher makes $1,000 less than 30 years ago.
The teacher pay gap is a national failure that’s holding America back. From city schools in major urban centers, to rural schools like those in South Carolina’s “Corridor of Shame,” we’ve failed to give teachers the respect and resources they deserve. It’s time for a bold, national response.
So let’s speak the truth: America’s teachers are drastically underpaid and they deserve a raise. That’s exactly what Kamala Harris intends to give them as President. We’ll make the largest investment in teachers in American history and provide the average teacher a $13,500 raise, entirely closing the teacher pay gap.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Give the average teacher in America a $13,500 raise, about a 23 percent increase in base pay.
- Incentivize states to invest in eliminating the teacher pay gap alongside federal investment. 
- Support programs that help recruit and train teachers, particularly at HBCUs.

FOREIGN POLICY
Kamala knows this president has made us less safe. We need new American leadership and a president who holds true to our values at home and abroad.
We are at a turning point in our history. By alienating our allies and ignoring the emerging threats we face, President Trump has diminished America as a world power and left Americans less safe and weaker in the world.
We are on a dangerous path and we need to change course. Kamala believes that requires American leadership and a president who holds true to our values at home and abroad.
That means America must fight alongside friends and allies – not alone. During his time in the White House, President Trump has undermined the partnerships and institutions we’ve spent decades building in every corner of the world. Kamala believes America is stronger when we invest in our critical relationships and alliances – from NATO, to the United Nations and the World Trade Organization, and with key partners like Japan, India, Mexico, and Korea. Whether it’s the nuclear threat of North Korea and Iran, chaos and oppression in Venezuela, confronting China’s unfair trade practices, or combatting Russia’s cyberattacks on our democracy, the U.S. is most effective at confronting global challenges when we work in coordination with our partners.
Turning our back on the world is not an option: the U.S. and our allies face real threats to our security – from Russian aggression to international terrorism – and we need to be clear-eyed, determined, and proactive in confronting them.
American leadership and values also means preparing for a range of new and emerging threats, including cyber-security, the spread of terrorism in and beyond the Middle East, and the white supremacist terror threat at home. By ignoring these real-time threats, President Trump has put America’s security at risk. As president, Kamala will invest in new technology to fortify America’s critical infrastructure, including passing her Secure Elections Act to protect against foreign interference in our democracy. She’ll immediately re-enter the Paris Agreement and make climate cooperation a key diplomatic priority for the United States. And she’ll confront white supremacy by re-establishing the Domestic Terror Intelligence Unit and reversing President Trump’s cuts to programs designed to combat white nationalism.
Finally, American leadership and values means remembering who we are. Part of what makes America strong are the very values the Trump Administration jeopardizes: thoughtfulness and measured leadership, the use of diplomacy and development in addition to defense, a commitment to human rights and pursuing peace, and respect for our veterans and service members.
Kamala believes these values belong at the center of our foreign policy. As president, she’ll work with our allies and local leaders to end the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and protracted military engagements in places like Syria. But she’ll do so responsibly – by consulting our generals and ambassadors, not via tweet. She’ll reinvigorate our diplomatic corps and State Department. She’ll continue her unshakable support for Israel and work towards a two-State solution so that Palestinians and Israelis can govern themselves in security, dignity, and peace. She’ll stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, but without isolating the United States diplomatically and risking an unnecessary war.

GENDER EQUALITY
From radical abortion bans, to unequal pay, to harassment and assault in the workplace, women in America are still not being valued, respected, or paid equally.
President Trump has denigrated and demeaned women, and spent his entire presidency systematically targeting women’s rights. He’s rolled back campus sexual assault protections, gutted Equal Pay rules designed to prevent discrimination, and appointed Supreme Court justices intent on overturning Roe v. Wade.
The stakes have never been higher for women’s rights, and Kamala is ready to take the fight to Donald Trump.
Kamala has fought for women and girls her entire career. As a new lawyer, Kamala specialized in prosecuting individuals charged with sexually assaulting children. As District Attorney, she advocated for legislation to make human trafficking a felony offense. As the first woman to be elected Attorney General of California, Kamala cleared the backlog of untested rape kits during her first year in office. As Senator, Kamala championed the rights of sexual assault survivors and led the charge against Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court. She introduced the EMPOWER Act to help end the culture of fear and silence that still exists around workplace harassment, and cosponsored legislation to protect women’s right to safely access an abortion.
As president, Kamala will continue to champion the rights of women and girls. She’ll protect Planned Parenthood from Republican attempts to defund essential health services, nominate judges who respect Roe v. Wade, and immediately roll back dangerous and discriminatory rules put in place by President Trump to limit access to contraception and safe abortion in the United States and around the world.
For Kamala, protecting women’s rights also means recognizing and addressing persistent biases where they exist. For example, in America today, the risk of death from pregnancy-related causes for Black women is three to four times higher than for white women. Kamala believes health equity is a civil rights issue, and as president, she’ll fight to address racial disparities in maternal health care by passing her Maternal CARE Act, a bill Kamala first introduced in the Senate in 2018.
Kamala will also fight for women’s economic rights by mandating equal pay, working to ensure workers have access to paid family and medical leave, and making quality child care affordable for working families.
Another issue impacting women that’s too often overlooked and ignored in the conversation on women’s rights: Gun safety. More than 1 million women in America today have been shot or shot at by an intimate partner, and 92% of all women killed with guns in high-income countries are killed in the United States. Kamala believes it’s past time to act. If Congress fails to pass a comprehensive gun safety bill within her first 100 days in office, she’ll take executive action herself, including by closing the so-called “Boyfriend Loophole” that allows dating partners convicted of domestic violence to purchase guns.

HOLDING CORPORATIONS ACCOUNTABLE FOR PAY INEQUALITY IN AMERICA
Closing the pay gap by requiring employers to get “equal pay certified.”
In America today, women who work full time are paid just 80 cents, on average, for every dollar paid to men. For Latinas it’s 53 cents, for Native American women it’s 58 cents, and for Black women it’s 61 cents. All that money adds up to more than $400,000 over the course of a woman’s career, and more than $1 million for Latinas, Native American women, and Black women.
It’s not right that young women need to work more hours to pay off their student debt. It’s not right that new mothers are penalized for taking time off to care for their children. It’s not right that women retirees have less security and accumulated wealth after working their entire careers. It’s not right that the wage gap has barely budged this entire century.
It’s not right, and it needs to change.
For too long, we’ve put the burden entirely on workers to hold corporations accountable for pay discrimination through costly lawsuits that are increasingly difficult to prove. We’ve let corporations hide their wage gaps, but forced women to stand up in court just to get the pay they’ve earned. It’s time to flip the script and finally hold corporations accountable for pay inequality in America.
Kamala has a simple message for corporations: Pay women fairly or pay the price.
That’s a message she intends to put into action as president. For the first time in American history, she’ll require corporations to show they’re not engaging in pay discrimination, and fine companies that fail to close their pay gaps.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Companies with 100 employees or more will be required to obtain a certification from the Equal Employment and Opportunity Commission (EEOC) or else face fines on their profits. Fines will be invested in paid family leave programs. 
- Require federal contractors to receive Equal Pay Certification within two years of Harris taking office. If they don’t, they’ll be barred from competing for federal contracts valued at more than $500,000.

THE REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS ACT
Blocking dangerous and deadly abortion restrictions before they take effect.
Kamala believes we need to fight back and block these dangerous and deadly laws before they take effect. That’s exactly what she intends to do as president. Similar to the preclearance requirement of the Voting Rights Act, Harris will require, for the first time, that states and localities with a history of violating Roe v. Wade obtain approval from her Department of Justice before any abortion law or practice can take effect.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Stopping the all-out assault on reproductive rights by ensuring that states or localities with a history of threatening reproductive rights have to get new policies pre-cleared by the Department of Justice.
- Any law with respect to abortion in a covered jurisdiction will remain legally unenforceable until DOJ determines it comports with the standards laid out by the Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade, as applied in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, and the Women’s Health Protection Act.

FIGHTING FOR JUSTICE FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT SURVIVORS
Kamala’s plan to close nationwide rape kit backlog in her first term.
Kamala’s plan would invest $1 billion to allow states to fully eliminate their rape-kit backlogs within four years and implement reforms to ensure a backlog does not happen again. On average, it costs $1,000 to $1,500 to test one rape kit. The annual estimated cost of the program is $100 million, which is $2 million less than what taxpayers have reportedly spent on President Trump’s golf trips. Rape kits are used by medical professionals to collect evidence during a medical exam of a sexual assault victim in order to establish elements of a crime, and in the last decade, roughly 225,000 known untested rape kits have been uncovered.
As Attorney General, Kamala eliminated a longstanding backlog of DNA analysis and more than 1,000 untested rape kits in state-run labs and introduced new technology to dramatically increase the speed with which cases are analyzed. Kamala’s program earned her office the U.S. Department of Justice’s Award for Professional Innovation in Victim Services and was considered as “a model for use statewide.” She also backed California legislation in 2016 “to illuminate the state’s invisible backlog of untested rape kits,” and in the U.S. Senate, she sponsors The Survivors’ Access to Supportive Care Act, which would make rape kits more readily available at hospitals nationwide.
To receive additional funding under her plan, states will be required to implement four reforms:
1. Annually counting and reporting the number of untested rape kits.
2. Requiring the submission and testing of all newly collected rape kits within a short time frame.
3. Tracking rape kits and giving victims the right to know the status of their rape kits.
4. Increasing the availability of rape kits statewide, including in rural and remote areas. States will have the option to partner with the FBI to eliminate their backlog or to receive federal funding to process kits on their own. States will also be encouraged to enact laws that require law enforcement agencies to preserve rape kits for the duration of the statute of limitations.

GUN VIOLENCE
We need a president with the courage to stand up to the gun lobby and pass reasonable gun safety laws.
Gun violence is a national epidemic and a public health emergency. In 2017, nearly 40,000 people were killed by guns in America.
We’re not waiting for good ideas–we have good ideas. We’re not waiting for another tragedy – we have seen the worst human tragedies we can imagine. What’s missing is politicians in Washington having the courage to stand up to the NRA.
Kamala has a simple message: We’re not waiting any longer.
If Congress fails to send comprehensive gun safety legislation to Kamala’s desk within her first 100 days as president–including universal background checks, an assault weapons ban, and the repeal of the NRA’s corporate gun manufacturer immunity shield–she will take executive action to keep our kids and communities safe. She’ll mandate the most comprehensive federal background checks in history, revoke the licenses of gun manufacturers that break the law, close the “boyfriend loophole” to make it harder for domestic abusers to purchase guns, reverse President Trump’s dangerous decision to allow fugitives from justice to purchase guns, and ban the importation of AR-15 style assault weapons.
This is just part of the gun safety agenda Kamala will pursue as president. In addition to enacting universal background checks, renewing the assault weapons ban, and repealing the gun manufacturer immunity, Kamala will fight to make gun trafficking a federal crime, ban high capacity magazines, and prohibit those convicted of a federal hate crime from buying guns.
Kamala has a long record of making progress on common sense gun safety reform. As District Attorney in 2004, she called for the renewal of the federal assault weapons ban and championed legislation to require microstamping technology for guns. As Attorney General, she stood up to the gun lobby and successfully defended California’s gun violence prevention laws to legal challenge.

KAMALA’S PLAN FOR ACTION ON GUN VIOLENCE
Taking executive action to stop gun violence if Republicans continue to cower to the NRA.
Enough.
In 2017, nearly 40,000 people were killed by guns in America. Gun violence is a national epidemic and a public health emergency. We’re not waiting for a good idea – we have good ideas. We’re not waiting for another tragedy – we have seen the worst human tragedies we can imagine. What’s missing is Republicans in Washington having the courage to stand up to the NRA.
Kamala Harris has a simple message: We’re not waiting any longer.
If Congress fails to send comprehensive gun safety legislation to Harris’ desk within her first 100 days as president – including universal background checks, an assault weapons ban, and the repeal of the NRA’s corporate gun manufacturer and dealer immunity bill – she will take executive action to keep our kids and communities safe.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Mandate near-universal background checks by requiring anyone who sells five or more guns a year to conduct background checks on all gun sales.
- Revoke the licenses of gun manufacturers who break the law (including negligence laws and unfair trade practices) and take them to court if need be. 
- Reverse Trump’s dangerous change to prohibited persons guidelines which has allowed thousands of fugitives with outstanding arrest warrants to buy guns. 
- Close the “boyfriend loophole” to prevent dating partners convicted of domestic violence from purchasing guns. 
- Ban AR-15-style assault weapons from being imported into the United States.

HEALTH CARE
Health care should be a right, not a privilege. Kamala’s plan will make this a reality in America by ensuring comprehensive health care for everyone.
Right now, the American health care system costs too much and allows insurance companies to run the show. Kamala believes health care should be a right, not a privilege only for those who can afford it. That’s why she has a plan for Medicare for All that will guarantee coverage for every American, lower health care costs, allow a choice between private and public Medicare plans and force insurance companies to play by our rules.
When Kamala’s mother was diagnosed with cancer, it was one of the worst days of her life. But Kamala was so grateful that her mother had Medicare. She believes we must guarantee Medicare for All.
Kamala’s plan for Medicare for All expands on the progress made under Obamacare, immediately offers an improved Medicare buy-in, and transitions the country to a Medicare system we are all in so that we can take on insurance and drug companies. Her plan will reduce costs, keep options for public or private Medicare plans, and ensure a smooth transition.
Affordable health care also means lowering the cost of prescription drugs by taking on pharmaceutical manufacturers and private insurance companies. That’s what Kamala has done throughout her career. As Attorney General, she won a more than $320 million settlement from insurance companies that defrauded elderly Californians and people with disabilities. As president, Kamala will continue the fight. She’ll prosecute opioid makers profiting from the health crisis they’ve helped cause, allow Medicare to negotiate for cheaper prescription prices, and shut the revolving door between pharmaceutical companies and our government.
Kamala also believes health care will never be a universal right unless we fight back against the constant attacks on women’s health care. That’s why, as Attorney General, Kamala led a coalition of 16 states to urge the Supreme Court to protect women’s access to contraceptive coverage under the Affordable Care Act, and, as Senator, fought back against President Trump’s attempts to repeal the law. As president, Kamala will nominate judges who know Roe v. Wade is the law of the land, protect Planned Parenthood from Republican attempts to defund essential health services, and address racial disparities in maternal health care. Reproductive rights are protected by the Constitution and Kamala will keep fighting until those rights are protected and guaranteed in every state.

MEDICARE FOR ALL
In America, health care should be a right, not a privilege only for those who can afford it. That’s why we need Medicare for All.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan for Medicare for All:
- Provide affordable, comprehensive health care for every American. 
	◦	Her plan will cover all medically necessary services, including emergency room visits, doctor visits, vision, dental, hearing aids, mental health and substance use disorder treatment, and comprehensive reproductive health care services.
	◦	It will also allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate for lower prescription drug prices. 
- Include a 10-year transition period so that we take the time to ensure that everyone has a plan that works for them. 
- Allow private insurers to offer Medicare plans as a part of this system that adhere to strict Medicare requirements on costs and benefits.
- People will have a choice between private Medicare for All plans and the public Medicare for All plan.  
- Exempt households making below $100,000 (or more in certain high cost areas) from any income-based premiums. And, we’ll pay for that by taxing certain Wall Street transactions. 

IMMIGRATION
We are a country of immigrants. It’s time for America to lead with our values and enact comprehensive reform.
Kamala grew up knowing a simple truth: Immigrants don’t just belong in America, immigrants are part of the fabric of America. As the child of immigrants, she will prosecute the case against Donald Trump’s inhumane immigration policies.
President Trump campaigned and has spent his presidency vilifying immigrant families and communities. He has manufactured a so-called crisis to divide our country and distract from his efforts to take away health care and give tax breaks to the super rich. His Administration has locked children and families in cages, taken babies from their mothers and fathers, ended protections for DREAMers, and sought to spend billions to build a wasteful wall on our southern border.
Kamala has fought on behalf of immigrant communities and for a fair immigration system throughout her career. As District Attorney, she cracked down on businesses that exploited undocumented immigrants. As Attorney General, she secured pro-bono representation for unaccompanied minors. As Senator, she’s led the charge against President Trump’s extreme anti-immigrant agenda, opposing John Kelly’s nomination as Secretary of Homeland Security, voting against Trump’s border wall funding, and was the first Senator to call for Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to resign.
Kamala hasn’t just fought back: she’s laid out a vision for immigration in America after defeating President Trump. She’s championed legislation to reunite families, ensure immigrants have access to legal counsel, and use more humane and cost effective alternatives to detention.
As president, Kamala will fight to pass immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million people living in our communities and contributing to our economy. While she wages that fight, she will immediately reinstate DACA and expand the program to ensure more DREAMers feel safe and secure in the only country they call home. She’ll protect parents of American citizens and legal permanent residents, as well as other law-abiding immigrants with ties to our communities, from the prospect of deportation. She will also restore and expand Temporary Protected Status for hundreds of thousands of immigrants who would face war or catastrophe if forced to return home.
Kamala also believes we must fundamentally overhaul our immigration enforcement policies and practices—they are cruel and out of control. As president, she’ll close private immigrant detention centers, increase oversight of agencies like Customs and Border Protection, and focus enforcement on increasing public safety, not on tearing apart immigrant families.
For Kamala, this is about making America a place that welcomes immigrants searching for a better life. It’s why she’ll reverse President Trump’s Muslim Ban on Day One and fix the family visa backlog.
Kamala also will immediately change course on President Trump’s disastrous and cruel border strategy. She understands that for many immigrant families, leaving home and arriving at our Southern border is not a choice. That’s why she will ensure those fleeing persecution have a full and fair opportunity to make their claim, aggressively pursue a foreign policy focused on stabilizing Central America where conditions have forced families to flee, and increase funding for processing centers and child welfare workers. Kamala will focus our border enforcement resources on true public safety threats through investments in technology and ports of entry to address the flow of illegal drugs, illegal weapons, and human trafficking.

A NEW ROADMAP TO CITIZENSHIP FOR DREAMERS
Kamala’s plan to forge a roadmap to citizenship by executive action.
Dreamers grew up in our communities and pledge allegiance to our flag. They serve in our military and thrive in our universities. Their families are an integral part of our country and economy. They represent the best of who we are and know no other place but the United States as their home.
Donald Trump can’t change that. And despite his best efforts, he can’t shake the resolve of our Dreamers and the hope they have in the America we’ll build when he’s gone. It’s an America where families are kept together, not torn apart. It’s an America where children are cared for, not kept in cages. It’s an America where Dreamers are finally recognized for what they are: Americans.
As the child of immigrants, that’s the America Kamala Harris will build—and she doesn’t believe Dreamers should have to wait a moment longer. As president, Harris will take executive action to keep immigrant families together and eliminate barriers that prevent Dreamers from accessing a path to U.S. citizenship.
We estimate the plan will protect over 6 million immigrants from deportation, add up to $445 billion to U.S. GDP over ten years, and provide America’s 2.1 million Dreamers a path to citizenship if they have a congressionally-required family- or employment-based grounds to adjust status.
Make no mistake – Congress must pass 21st century immigration reform, and Harris will fight to get it done as president. But while she fights to reform our laws, Harris will do everything within her legal authority as president to roll back Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant agenda and build a future that lives up to America’s values.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Fight to pass immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million people living in our communities and contributing to our economy.
- Immediately reinstate DACA and expand the program to protect more Dreamers.
- Kamala will use her authority under the Immigration and Naturalization Act (INA) to create a path to citizenship for Dreamers.

INFRASTRUCTURE
Kamala’s plan to invest in infrastructure and build for America’s future.
We can’t grow our economy when the roads and bridges are crumbling, contaminated water systems are pumping toxins into homes, and a staggering digital divide leaves nearly one third of Americans in rural areas and tribal lands without access to high-speed broadband.
President Trump promised to invest $200 billion in federal funds to build up America’s infrastructure. Unsurprisingly, he broke that promise. Nearly half of families can’t afford an unexpected expense of $400—the average cost of fixing tires deflated while driving over pothole-pocked roads—but this president handed big corporations a $1 trillion tax cut that could be fixing our infrastructure.
We need someone who will fix and build roads, bridges, public transportation, modernize our energy and water infrastructure, and power this transformation with millions of good paying jobs for working Americans.
As president, Kamala will be that leader. She’ll make real investments in our infrastructure, and, together, we’ll build a brighter, stronger, more interconnected America.
Connect and re-connect our roads, rail, and transit.
- As part of a $1 trillion infrastructure plan, Kamala will invest $385 billion to repair our 3.9 million miles of roads and bridges, improve public transportation, modernize rail infrastructure, and promote innovative transformations to our transportation networks.
- This $1 trillion federal investment plan will create more than 15 million jobs.
Expand broadband infrastructure for all Americans.
- Access to the internet is about so much more than just expanding the reach of technology. When the digital divide leaves out a community, it means a student can’t finish her homework, it’s harder for a patient to receive information from their doctor, and a small business can’t find their next customer. That’s why Kamala will connect every home to affordable broadband by 2024 through an $80 billion “Broadband for the People” program. Broadband for the People will:
- Build infrastructure by providing funding and incentives so underserved, unconnected areas get affordable broadband services. 
- Eliminate state laws that block local governments from building their own broadband infrastructure.
Repair our water infrastructure and fight for environmental justice.
- We know that race bears the strongest relationship to serious violations and ineffective enforcement of drinking water law; majority-Black communities like Flint, Michigan and Hopkins, South Carolina are disproportionately vulnerable to the health and environmental harms of contaminated water systems. That’s why Kamala will declare a Drinking Water Infrastructure Emergency and invest $250 billion over 5 years to repair and replace drinking water infrastructure, upgrade and maintain well water and septic systems, and help low-income households pay for high drinking water and wastewater utility bills.
- She’ll also invest $20 billion in a diverse portfolio of sustainable water solutions like water recycling and reuse and using natural infrastructure to store more water while protecting ecosystems. 
Invest and rebuild our schools for future generations.
- We must ensure that our school environments are safe and secure so our children can learn and thrive. Kamala will fight to pass legislation providing $100 billion in federal grants and school construction bonds to rebuild and repair the nation’s schools. 
- A $70 billion grant program and $30 billion tax credit bond program will target high-poverty schools with facilities that endanger students’ health and safety.
- She’ll develop a new—and much-needed—national database on the condition of public school facilities.
- And she’ll expand access to high-speed broadband so public schools have the reliable and high-speed internet access they need for digital learning.

LABOR
To build a strong economy, we need to build a strong labor movement where every worker can join a union.
Policies that increase worker power have played a central role in building our middle class and providing economic security to millions of Americans. Reforms that the labor movement drove brought us a five-day workweek, sick leave, and other basic worker protections. Because unions built the middle class, it’s no coincidence that, as the labor movement has been undermined, the economic security enjoyed by tens of millions is also under extreme duress.  
We have to rebuild the middle class. We can do this by creating more and better jobs for the economy we have today while we also actively prepare for the economy we will have tomorrow. Strengthening the labor movement is the first and most essential step in this work so that we don’t leave any worker or family to fight alone.
Kamala knows the importance of this fight. She knows from her mother, who would stay up late at their kitchen table trying to figure out how she was going to make it all work. She knows from meeting with countless public school teachers across the country working to educate our future leaders. She knows from opportunities like getting to spend a day walking with Detroit Security Officer, and SEIU member, Delores McDaniel, and hearing about her fight for better working conditions. 
As president, Kamala will restore power to workers and lift up the middle class. She’ll make sure every worker is able to join a union and bargain for better wages, benefits, and conditions at their workplaces. She’ll hold corporations accountable to workers. She’ll support workers as our economy evolves. And, together, we’ll rebuild economic security in America. 

KAMALA’S COMMITMENT TO FIGHT FOR ORGANIZED LABOR
Ensuring that no worker is left to fight alone.
As Kamala travels across the country, she is talking to families about their top-of-mind concerns. Those 3 AM worries keeping people up at night. For the vast majority of us, these are shared concerns: how to find a good-paying job; how to afford needed health care; and how to make sure their children get a quality education.  
We can do this by creating more and better jobs for the economy we have today while we also actively prepare for the economy we will have tomorrow. And one of the most important ways to build a strong economy is to have a strong labor movement where every worker can join a union. As president, Kamala will return power to workers, hold corporations accountable, and continue to support workers as our economy evolves. 
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Make sure that everyone is able to join a union, including by banning “right to work” laws and strengthening union protections for private-sector employees.
- Establishing baseline labor protections for all employers, including overtime protections and raising the federal minimum wage to $15 per hour. 
- Create new protections to protect workers and hold corporations accountable.
- Ensure all workers are supported as the economy changes.

LGBTQ+ EQUALITY
We must continue to fight for the LGBTQ+ community, who have faced discrimination for far too long simply because of who they are and whom they love.
We must speak truth: Homophobia and transphobia are real in this country, and they’re being fueled by an Administration that openly attacks Americans based on who they are or who they love.
We’re at an inflection point in our struggle for equality, and Kamala won’t leave anyone to fight alone. Together, we’ll fight for the equality of the LGBTQ+ community in all of its diversity.
That’s what Kamala has done her entire career. As District Attorney in 2004, she established an LGBT hate crimes unit. And when many Democrats supported civil unions, Kamala was marrying same-sex couples at San Francisco City Hall. As Attorney General, Kamala led efforts to abolish gay and transgender “panic defenses” in criminal trials that were used to excuse violence against LGBTQ+ people, and refused to defend California’s discriminatory Prop. 8 in court, setting the stage for nationwide marriage equality. As Senator, Kamala led the charge against President Trump’s anti-LGBTQ+ judicial nominees, and sponsored legislation to ensure LGBTQ+ Americans are properly counted in the census and to prevent the use of religious beliefs as a justification to discriminate against LGBTQ+ people.
As president, Kamala will fight to pass the Equality Act to provide the LGBTQ+ community explicit and comprehensive protection from discrimination in all facets of life, including employment, schools, and public accommodations. While she wages that fight, she will immediately reinstate President Obama’s LGBTQ+ equality executive actions to protect federal workers and prohibit discrimination by federal contractors, in federally funded housing programs, and by hospitals participating in Medicaid and Medicare. Kamala also supports placing a third gender option on federal identification cards and documents. She will roll back Trump Administration rules that allow individuals to use their religious beliefs as a justification to discriminate against LGBTQ+ Americans.
But LGBTQ+ people don’t just face discrimination: too often in America today, they face violence as well. We can’t ignore it, and we must address it. As president, Kamala will appoint an Attorney General who makes investigating and prosecuting hate crimes a priority and invest in law enforcement training on interactions with LGBTQ+ individuals.
Kamala believes we also must fight for equality around the globe by making LGBTQ+ rights an integral part of our foreign policy approach. That starts with America living by the values we preach. On day one Kamala will reverse President Trump’s immoral ban on transgender servicemembers in the Armed Forces.
Kamala’s message is simple: Our America is one where everyone is afforded equal rights, and that’s the America we will fight for together.

KAMALA’S LGBTQ+ PLAN TO PROVIDE EQUALITY AND DIGNITY FOR ALL
We must continue to fight for the LGBTQ+ community, who have faced discrimination for far too long simply because of who they are and whom they love.
Kamala has been a champion for LGBTQ+ equality throughout her career. When most Democrats were on the sidelines, Kamala stood with the community by fighting for marriage equality. As San Francisco District Attorney, she created one of the first LGBTQ+ hate crimes units in the nation and as Attorney General she helped to defeat the gay/trans panic defense used by perpetrators of hate crimes. There is no one in this race who has a longer or deeper record on this issue.
Kamala is committed to bringing this same leadership to the White House to ensure that LGBTQ+ people are able to live proudly and openly, without fear of discrimination. Right now, far too many members of the LGBTQ+ community experience unequal treatment—from the worker who is fired for who she loves to the trans student whose school refuses him access to the appropriate bathroom. Discrimination is wrong, and Kamala will fight tirelessly to end it.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Roll back the Trump/Pence hate agenda by reversing Trump’s actions to harm the LGBTQ+ community, including the transgender service ban and guidelines to protect students from discrimination and harassment. 
- Establish a Chief Advocate for LGBTQ+ affairs in the White House to ensure that LGBTQ+ Americans are represented in hiring and policy priorities across the government. 
- Fight for full equality for the LGBTQ+ community by passing the Equality Act and other laws to ensure that everyone is safe and supported at work, at school, and throughout their communities.

VETERANS
It’s time to honor our veterans’ service and sacrifice through respect, empowerment, and support.
Our country has been at war for the past 18 years; we have deployed more than 3 million service members since the attacks of September 11, 2001. Our military families are as tough as their loved ones and have also carried a tremendous burden. We must serve them — service members, veterans, their families, and their caregivers — as well as they have served us.
The Trump administration is failing them all by allowing the rate of veterans suicide to remain shockingly high, tapping military personnel funds for his unpopular and controversial border wall, targeting military service members with predatory immigration policies, and allowing the American opioid crisis to disproportionately claim veteran victims. To make matters worse, they have been systematically neglecting DoD and V.A. programs, letting quality and wait times get worse, and outsourcing care to a few large corporations.
Kamala believes that our veterans deserve so much more. That’s why as Attorney General, she went after companies who preyed on our veterans, such as Corinthian Colleges, which used fraudulent marketing tactics to take advantage of veterans looking to further their education. In the Senate, she has introduced legislation to ensure military housing is held to high health and safety standards and championed efforts to make sure that veterans can take full advantage of GI Bill benefits to make sure that foster children and legal wards are also eligible for unused benefits their parent may have.
As president, Kamala will prioritize the needs of America’s servicemembers, military families, and veterans, just as they’ve prioritized the needs of our nation. That means defending the Department of Veterans Affairs against corporate privatization attempts, expanding our investment in veterans’ health care, and reversing President Trump’s illegal and immoral ban on transgender service members.

KAMALA’S PROMISE TO AMERICA’S VETERANS AND MILITARY FAMILIES
Our country has been at war for the past 18 years; we have deployed more than 3 million service members since the attacks of September 11, 2001. Our military families are as tough as their loved ones and have also carried a tremendous burden. We must serve them — service members, veterans, their families, and their caregivers — as well as they have served us.
The Trump administration is failing them all by allowing the rate of veterans suicide to remain shockingly high, tapping military personnel funds for his unpopular and controversial border wall, targeting military service members with predatory immigration policies, and allowing the American opioid crisis to disproportionately claim veteran victims. To make matters worse, they have been systematically neglecting DoD and V.A. programs, letting quality and wait times get worse, and outsourcing care to a few large corporations.
Kamala believes that our veterans deserve so much more. That’s why as Attorney General, she went after companies who preyed on our veterans, such as Corinthian Colleges, which used fraudulent marketing tactics to take advantage of veterans looking to further their education. In the Senate, she has introduced legislation to ensure military housing is held to high health and safety standards and championed efforts to make sure that veterans can take full advantage of GI Bill benefits to make sure that foster children and legal wards are also eligible for unused benefits their parent may have.
It’s time to honor the service and sacrifice of our warfighters, veterans, and their families. As commander-in-chief, Kamala will work to provide them the support they have earned.
Here are the key points of Kamala’s plan:
- Expand access to health care and housing assistance available to veterans with “other-than-honorable” discharges.
- Further reform the V.A., including ensuring that it completes the integration of its commercial health records systems with the Pentagon. 
- Create a Veteran’s Transitional Housing Block Grant to help communities design innovative solutions to our veteran’s homelessness crisis. 
- Provide strong support for military families before, during, and after deployment.
- Ensure equal treatment for all members of the military.

VOTING RIGHTS & OUR DEMOCRACY
We must rebuild the foundation of our democracy by fighting any attempt at voter suppression, getting dark money out of politics, and protecting our elections.
Our democracy was built on the notion that every American has an equal voice. But that’s not the democracy we have today.
Across the country, the right to vote is under attack by voter suppression tactics, our politics are infected by a campaign finance system rife with dark money and a President beholden to special interests, and our outdated election infrastructure stands vulnerable to foreign attack.
We must rebuild the foundation of our democracy, and Kamala believes that starts by building a campaign that reflects the values we want to see in our policies and politics. That’s why Kamala’s campaign won’t take a dime from Big Oil and Pharma executives, federal lobbyists, or SuperPACs.
Our campaign is powered by the people—and that’s the kind of government Kamala will fight for as president.
That means fighting back against voter suppression and making it easier to vote. Across the country, millions of Americans are being denied the right to vote by a wave of state laws intentionally designed to disenfranchise Black Americans, Latinx Americans, Native Americans, and college students. As president, Kamala will restore the full protections of the Voting Rights Act, require the availability of early voting , fight for automatic voter registration, and make Election Day a national holiday.
A government for the people also means taking on special interests in Washington. Corruption didn’t start with President Trump, but his Administration has put the consequences of corruption in stark relief: A $1 trillion tax handout to big corporations and the top 1%, the gutting of life-saving environmental protections, and the erosion of rules to protect workers, veterans, and young people from predatory corporations.
As Attorney General, Kamala fought off attempts by a Koch brothers-aligned group to hide their donors. As president, she’ll take on the corrupting influence of money in politics by fighting to overturn Citizens United, requiring the public disclosure of donors by dark-money interest groups, and appointing Supreme Court justices who prioritize the right of Americans to vote over the right of corporations to buy elections.
Let’s be clear: A government for the people means a government for the American people. Unlike President Trump, Kamala believes we must ensure our elections are protected from hackers and foreign adversaries intent on undermining our democracy. In the Senate, Kamala introduced the Secure Elections Act to protect against foreign interference. As president, she will fortify America’s election infrastructure by funding election security improvements, implementing cybersecurity guidelines, and replacing outdated electronic voting machines.